There are 8 bones in the wrist
and 2, the radius and ulna,
in the lower arm.
If your child has a wrist fracture,
it means there is a crack or break
in one of the bones of the wrist
or in the ends of the forearm bones.
The most common cause is a
fall or a direct blow to the wrist.
If the fracture is at the growth plate
near the end of the bone,
bone growth can be affected
and may require special X-rays
or other tests.
Young bones are more flexible
than an adult’s,
so a child’s bone may crack
or just buckle without a clear break
instead of snapping like a dry stick.
Your child may wear a splint
until swelling is reduced,
and a cast for 4 to 8 weeks.
Surgery may be required to straighten
a broken bone that is crooked.